Neo-Manhattan
======

I will be honest, I only chose Manhattan because that is where Vinny, the character giving this story, is from. This city could technically be called anything. It does not have to be from North America. In any case, the place must be highly metropolitan. This means the place has skyscrapers, strip malls, garages, highways, freeways, bridges, and warehouses. The city itself was meant to hold about 5 Million people (if not more). This should be considered when mapping out the city yourself. Otherwise I may post a few pictures of my envisioned city down below.

## Lore of Neo-Manhattan
A lot has (and is going to) happen(ed) in Neo-Manhattan. Consider the apocalypse is happening, but over the course of several years. It began as fake stars started appearing in the sky (inspired by the anime plot from *Darker than Black*). These stars prefaced the rise of special abilities in individuals. Wars would break out in secret. Governments and Organizations would try to hold together. However, [two destined individuals would meet](https://open.spotify.com/track/2sFUNO7GTx5VbKRwPhbEmF?si=GFoOKhlDSwubtiZKZJjxpA). Occurring at the center of the town, this would leave a permanent mark in the center of the metropolitan area. The stain will last until the apocalypse ends, leaving nothing but smithereens to this once great city. 

***

This campaign specifically takes place a couple months after this legendary fight. It occurs before these "avatars" finish their fight. Since this fight, Neo-Manhattan has become slightly barren but still lively. People have started dividing themselves amongst several communities bordering the black hole like structure in the center of the city. This means the city is more barren as you get closer to the black hole. The outskirts may contain large groups of people, yet to evacuate from the destruction.

## The Communities
Each community has a particular reason for sticking around. Whether criminal or otherwise, many have considered this city to be their home for so long. There are also those that believe the city hold the ability to conquer the whole world. Below are a few examples

### The Mob
This is open for artistic direction. The Mob is suppose to be the friendly portion of the city. The Mob is the business and organized crime, seeking capitalistic survival after the recent cataclysm. Power, provided through special abilities, remain the true corruption of the city. The rich and sand work within this community. They try to procure a meaningful and conservative life from what they have. The group will start within this community. The alternative being the other rich community on the other side.

### Legion's District
Legion represents the chaotic crime groups. It's structured from intense infighting and darwinistic leadership. The leader is not super well known, but people say he exhibits great abilities in mind control.

### Ice Queens Layer
The Ice Queen used to be the legendary HOA president of her suburban utopia. Acquiring the ability to use powers, the sovereign quickly grew crazy with power, creating an entire domain of snow barring any possible threats from the outside. The Ice Queen is very dangerous and should be avoided if possible.

## The Amazing Sights!
There are also a few important places created from the initial battles of the apocalypse.

### Battleground
Strewn with swords and weapons from a legendary war between righteous and rebellion, Battleground is now a setting for looters and thieves. Old soldiers comb Battleground for gun running and illegal weapon trading. How illegal can it be with a strewn out government as it is? Most of these individuals are just lost, poor, and guilty warriors, looking for a reason to fight again.

## Pictures of the City
*TBD*