Special Rules
-------------

When using this campaign, I would urge players to use some special rules. These rules assimilate players into the world. They also work to make the overall experience during the campaign better.

## For the Players
1. Everyone will be given an additional can-trip, but using this cantrip will also have an poor (non-lethal) effect of my choice (it will be the same each time you use it).

2. Players will have to make their combat decisions at the same time. The initiative will decide in what order those moves are resolved amongst the characters.

3. Inspiration may be used for more than just advantage including: 1d8 health points, inspiring another player, or a free spell slot.

#### Extra Cantrips
This is similar to the idea brought about by *Darker than Black*, a terrific anime series. This idea has also been replicated in many other science fiction and super hero shows: *Alphas*, *The Boys*, and *Darwins Game*. Players become contracted. They receive a special and unique ability that they can use freely (to the level of a Level 1-2 spell). But the power comes with consequences. There is a contract/price that must be fulfilled when using this ability. *Darker than Black* is an excellent example of this. For example, a character flies 60 feet, but once they land they have to organize 100 pebbles into a square. This can easily be fulfilled with a couple DC checks and a joke. This idea makes players more involved in the world. It also provides them with a reason to be a hero. With these abilities, they are automatically special.

#### Combat Revision
To avoid downtime during combat, players will work together to come up with what each person is doing. The resolution of the turns will happen in accordance to initiative order, but everyone will decide their turn at the same time. Once decided, the players should make movements at the same time, make any checks needed all together. The dungeon master should collect and write down the rolls in initiative order. The damages can be rolled at the same time or when the dungeon master is ready, per his discretion. 


This is a pretty easy rule to enforce, but it does call for the dungeon master to do more heavy lifting to not leave times between decisions to be empty. Instead the Dungeon Master should start making decisions of his own while the players deliberate. The dungeon master should really only take a minute (or two) to resolve the stats of the players and monsters. Once resolved, the dungeon master should tell a story of what happened. How did each hit occur? How did the monsters/enemies react? Should the players engage in different tactics? Is there a hint that can be provided to the players? Did anyone fall during the recent attack?

#### Inspiration
To avoid players looking to go through periods of "rest then encounter then rest then encounter," players should look for opportunities to gain inspiration. Inspiration should be treated as the call for heroes. When inspired, the player would receive somewhat of a second wind (something that existed in 4th edition). The player can use this inspiration instantly, receiving: advantage on a check, 1d8 health points, a 1d6 modifier to another player's check, or a free spell slot. These inspirations cannot be stored/banked. __A PLAYER MAY ONLY HAVE ONE INSPIRATION AT A TIME__.

## For the Dungeon Masters
1. Players will be given mini-games or impromptu scenes where inspiration will be granted. (I may add a secondary bonus effect to inspiration rather than just advantage on a roll)

2. Provide monsters with schemes

#### Mini-Games and Impromptu Scenes
Meta-gaming characters will often try to play detective during a conversation with an NPC. There is no appeal to working with or melding to the dungeon master's character. It is recommended that players have the opportunity ro receive [inspiration](#inspiration). The dungeon master should have many opportunities to provide inspiration. Some examples include:
- Giving a Pep-talk/Running a Con on a Non-player character
- Providing Lore Insight to the player's character
- Taking a risk for the benefit/detriment of other characters (Lone Wolf)


It is up to the Dungeon Master in the end who receives Inspiration. Another option is to provide mini games. Have all the players provide something as a task (a roll or something creative). The player that wins receives inspiration. This provides a material and metaphysical reward for players enjoying the campaign. Use this technique as often as you can to enforce immersion.

#### Scheming Monsters
Monsters in typically campaigns aim to kill. Often in the real world and books, this happens rarely. More often, especially in Neo-Manhattan, Monsters are "cruisin' for a bruisin'". Have the monster try to mame the players in some way rather than kill them. Provide the players the opportunity to retreat with low health (unless they get themselves stuck in a bad situation). For example, in Gamma World (the newer edition) the first example encounter describes barbarian pigs that work to whack the players into pits. This way the players learn to play around the monsters rather than repeatedly roll against each other. This is a suggestion, but one should always consider alternative objectives.