# How Evil is Forged
Evil (as is power) does not remain static in *Caught In The Aperture*. Instead their are 9 archetypes that the bosses (or evil overlords) usually follow. Not all of them will seek to fight the players, but they should represent that element of chaos and curiosity for the world. The descriptions for the archetypes are listed below.

1. [The Wolf][1]
2. [The Thief][2]
3. [The Enemy][3]
4. [The Avenger][4]
5. [The Dragon][5]
6. [The Serpent][6]
7. [The Construct][7]
8. [The Beast][8]
9. [Legion][9]

[1]: #the-wolf "The Wolf"
[2]: #the-thief "The Thief"
[3]: #the-enemy "The Enemy"
[4]: #the-avenger "The Avenger"
[5]: #the-dragon "The Dragon"
[6]: #the-serpent "The Serpent"
[7]: #the-construct "The Construct"
[8]: #the-beast "The Beast"
[9]: #legion "Legion"


## The Wolf
> Nothing could satisfy the wolf. It was left to hunt in the wilderness.
> It would massacre haven and garden looking for something pleasing. 
> Flowers plucked from left and right. Each one's smell gave
> after mere moments. And then there... in the moonlight... *stood a girl in*
> *a red hood.*

#### Examples in Modern Literature
- Sirens from Greek Mythology
- Vlad the Impaler (aka Dracula)
- The Scorpion -- ["The Scorpion and The Frog"](http://www.allaboutfrogs.org/stories/scorpion.html)

#### Ambitions and Loss
The Wolf in this case models from the tale of "Little Red Riding Hood." It plays on a human being's struggle with temptation. Separate from self-control (and [Legion][9]), the Wolf really combats the ability for human beings to love. It thrives on trickery and deception of individuals to pit them against other or themselves. The Wolf then plays to contort love into a despicable abomination.

#### Crafting With This Archetype
Any monster/character with this Archetype should retain some ability of illusion or trickery. It should have some insatiable objective. The character should ascribe to something different from the player objective. The character should then try to thwart the player character's efforts to instead apply towards a different course of action. A siren or harpy from DnD 5e are easy examples. A more complex example would be the Illusionist from _A Spell For Chameleon_.

## The Thief
> The Thief comes in the night.

#### Examples in Modern Literature
- The Butcher -- *Diablo* and *Diablo 3*
- Grimm Reaper
- Professor Moriarty -- Sherlock Holmes Books

#### Ambitions and Loss
The Thief is the bringer of death. The Thief kills for the sake of killing. Other archetypes may kill, but they do so with other goals in mind. The Thief strikes to steal joy. The archetype reigns over the inevitability of death. The fear that death imposes on the human mind is a power in itself. Like the Lich monster in DnD 5e, The thief is overall just a good oppositional force (especially for utilitarian players).


#### Crafting With This Archetype
The Thief should be an ultimate evil of some sorts. The Lich example in the previous section is a perfect embodiment. Think about the villains in Bond movies: sincere, clever, quick, and forward. The Thief should be a complete psychopath of sorts. In *Caught In The Aperture* the Thief will be embodied through a "possessed" item similar to the Horcruxes in *Harry Potter*.

## The Enemy
> Turmoil and soil falls from the sky like snow from the clouds.
> The masked warrior marches through the commotion of retreating citizens.
> A singular rebel, the dark figure, looks straight forth into a chaotic fray.
> Walking independent and apathetic to the commotion, the figure brandishes
> only the will to oppose that which shows strength.
> Now there is finally a worthy opponent.

#### Examples in Modern Literature
- Edward Richtofen -- *Call of Duty*
- Nix -- *Tomorrowland*
- The Joker -- *Batman*

#### Ambitions and Loss
The Enemy is a warrior without a war. A war is all it seeks. To create doubt and to instill opposition. The Enemy archetype is headstrong and unreasonable. The enemy will act to oppose any alliance. Even when the was is finished, The Enemy will still look for a fight, even alone. These warriors can often act reckless and endanger others. That remains their chaos. Their endeavors may benefit others, but consider their alignment similar to that of a DnD chaotic Neutral.

#### Crafting With This Archetype
The strength in this archetype is chaos. Creators of characters fulfilling this role should consider large explosions. These characters are headstrong. They remain unquestioned and often times leaders. Their fight is the primary struggle and drive. Their powers and abilities should reflect the fight. Another common theme amongst The Enemy archetype is some unbridled or unconsidered knowledge. Perhaps they carry around some "Necronomicon."

## The Avenger
> Dashing through the streets, the criminal glances left and right.
> Blood on his hands and no where to turn, the criminal makes his way to a safe haven.
> His old parents' home. A place no one would think to look.
> But, in the shadows lurks a judge, jury, and executioner.

#### Examples in Modern Literature
- *Dredd*
- Rev. Jeremiah Brown -- *Inherit The Wind*
- Marianne -- *Easy A*

#### Ambitions and Loss
So, the accusation is made. The sentence, typically death, is awarded by The Avenger. One of the more opaque biblical references of my archetypes, The Avenger seeks to accuse wrongdoing of its victims. It will then stop at nothing to award it with what it deserves. The Avenger is a true Kantian terror, exerting is perfect logic upon the universe. The Avenger seeks nothing but destruction of the wicked on its plane. This loss of perfection drives the character archetype.

#### Crafting With This Archetype
The Avenger is very similar to [The Enemy][3] archetype. In *Caught In The Aperture* they will be pitted against each other. In general, The Avenger should be similar to the Revenant monster in DnD 5e. The main attribute being its endless hunt for perfection. The Avenger may train for years, making it a very high level boss. Perhaps the players merely got in its way, or perhaps the adventurers are the target.

## The Dragon
> The sovereign rests on its throne like a snake poised to strike.
> The mere slave drags itself across the gleaming floor of the palace.
> "I have some bad news," the slave said.
> "Yes... I will need a new slave," the dragon responded.

#### Examples in Modern Literature
- Hela -- *Thor: Ragnarok*
- The Ice Queen -- *Narnia: The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe*
- Lord Agony -- *Lock's Quest*

#### Ambitions and Loss
First, it should be mentioned that The Dragon archetype does not have to fit a fantastical Dragon creature. The crimes of The Dragon are very similar to that of [The Enemy][3] archetype. They are different in character and objective. If [The Enemy][3] sought to divide and oppose people, The Dragon seeks to unite and torture them. The Dragon's are rulers and creators. Typically they have ambition of world domination. They seek to conquer something outside of "their realm". Consider my third example above, Lord Agony, who desired to create life at any cost. Typically these ambitions provide no sustenance to the character, so they aspire until death. They will wreak any havoc they can until then.

#### Crafting With This Archetype
An army is more the craft a dungeon master should consider. What army does The Dragon control. A necromancer of sorts would work wonders. Additionally a devil summoner could also fit the bill. In any case, The Dragon should have power over creating mass armies to pursue their ambition. Their own power is usually weak in comparison. The Dragon could also pertain to the origin story of [The Construct][7] archetype.

## The Serpent
> "And how do you know that you're mad - To begin with, said the Cat, a dog's not
> mad. You grant that? I suppose so, said Alice. Well then, the Cat went on, you
> see a dog growls when it's angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased. Now I growl
> when I'm pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry. Therefore I'm mad."
> \- Lewis Carroll, *Alice's Adventures in Wonderland; Through the Looking-Glass*

#### Examples in Modern Literature
- Flowey -- *Undertale*
- Loki -- Marvel's *Thor*
- Amber -- *Darker Than Black*

#### Ambitions and Loss
The ambition comes from the idea that "misery loves company." That would be the hopeful outlook, that these creatures were not directly looking to hurt others for genuine pleasure. Trickery and lies to succumb another a different thought process. They may think of themselves as some sort of greek "Prometheus," sharing their untold knowledge with the world. The problem is, knowledge does always benefit the receivers. Of course, people would then have to believe ignorance is truly bliss.

#### Crafting With This Archetype
These creatures are typically slippery. They do not attack directly, because they often don't need to. They get someone else to do it for them. They tangle webs, spark traps, trick victims. That remains their tool set. They will work great lengths to enforce a plot against another. Perhaps that means they will trick the players to do something separate to the quest, or perhaps this monster is the one behind the curtain.

## The Construct
> “Hateful day when I received life!' I exclaimed in agony. 
> 'Accursed creator! Why did you form a monster so hideous that even 
> you turned from me in disgust? God, in pity, made man beautiful and 
> alluring, after his own image; but my form is a filthy type of yours, 
> more horrid even from the very resemblance."
> \- Mary Shelley, *Frankenstein

#### Examples in Modern Literature
- Psycho-Pass -- *Psycho Pass*
- Joy (Pill) -- *We Happy Few*
- "Adolescence Syndrome" -- *Rascal Does Not Dream of Bunny Girl Senpai*

#### Ambitions and Loss
The construct is a bit more philosophical than the other archetypes. Constructs represent more patterns or destructions of belief. One could consider these "biblical sorcerers" or famine. These figments act on the patterns of humanity. They desire to constrain the freedom we have in life, threatening the hopes and beliefs we have. In sincerity, a construct remains very plainly a tool or decision. The obstacle can be surpassed in numerous ways. The ability to teach through its construction can often forge better heroes.

#### Crafting With This Archetype
Constructs should call something to question. The meaning of life is a very simple and elegant example. These archetypes provide a sense of reality to the players in the campaign. At the same time (like Frankenstein for example) these characters can have immense power. They're power shouldn't be the focus of their abilities (to keep away from [The Thief][2] or [The Dragon][5]). Rather their aim should represent the primary threat to humanity. Often times [The Dragon][5] plays a role in creating the construct.

## The Beast
> They came and ravaged the land. All that remained in this once playful town
> is a single orphan girl. The girl pulled herself out from under the foundation.
> Taking a single knife, though their were many on this now bloody battlefield.
> The many faces of the town imprinted on her mind. A single thought of vengeance
> drives each staggering step along the muddy road. 
> The templar shall pay for his crimes...

#### Examples in Modern Literature
- Lucy -- *Elfen Lied* (pronounced Elfen Leed)
- Bowler Hat -- *Meet the Robinsons*
- Diana -- *League of Legends*

#### Ambitions and Loss
The Beast is a seeker of retribution. They represent the idea that the hero "has gone to far." They were wronged by another and in effect they choose violent resolution. The lack of forgiveness causes further destruction for the setting. More wars arise from the resolution and instead of peace, chaos permeates through the atmosphere. Beasts will often lose some self control. The people that wronged them often caused something that cannot be undone: where the true evil lies.

#### Crafting With This Archetype
These archetypes are difficult to craft. Often times exiles, wronged, underdog, and vengeful characters become heroes or revolutionaries. Proving to the players this archetype is worth fending off is not worth the time. Instead, this archetype should be reserved as a white whale. Something that roams the land but will kill anything that obstructs it. The sighting of it may bewilder the players and cause curiosity. Rarely should lawful good players need to kill something like this.

## Legion
> "The plague, the infection, the madness that haunts the 
> corpses of Hallownest... the light that screams out from 
> the eyes of this dead Kingdom. What is the source? 
> I suppose mere mortals like myself will never understand"
> \- Team Cherry, *Hollow Knight*

#### Examples in Modern Literature
- Gravemind/The Flood -- *Halo 2*
- Typhon -- *Prey*
- "The It" -- *A Wrinkle in Time*

#### Ambitions and Loss
These creatures are mind controllers. They thrive on the capture of control over another being. Each of the creatures can create armies of individuals that will do their bidding. This makes it very difficult to fight against. Legion could even make your greatest ally become your greatest foe.

#### Crafting With This Archetype
These are very powerful monsters. Although it is very easily to forsee creatures that take away agency as enemies, the power should be contained. Consider monsters in the monster manual like Mind flayers and Vampires. Every monster needs its limits, and the creator should start with the limits of the abilities.