Caught in the Aperture
======

Welcome to the campaign, *Caught in the Aperture*, a Sci-Fi themed DnD 5th Edition campaign that will hopefully knock your socks off. After playing DnD for a few years, I have noticed a variety of playing and mastering styles amongst my meetups. In general most masters will focus on their favorite aspect of the rule book and stick to that. The issue is, DnD 5th edition contains many specific rules with upkeep in combat that can be used to the player's disadvantage. This especially occurs if the Dungeon Master tunnel visions players into a specific area.


Thus, I made this campaign seeking to restrict the attrition of DnD sessions and focus on the most lively sequences. The main objective being: *create a campaign players feel like they are the star of the show*. I hope to do this with the following:

1. Speed Up Combat
2. Provide an Open World
3. Make ["Übermensch"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%9Cbermensch)es out of the heroes.
4. Appeal to curiosity and roleplaying rather than obstacles and fights

## Summary of the Premise
The campaign starts off with a premise to separate it from my [friend's](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBocMftYMdTIUrkiWRKFmIg) ongoing campaign. The setting will be in a Sci-Fi book that the character, Vinny, is reading to a younger nephew. The place is called "Neo-Manhattan" (based on neo-tokyo in Akira). You will find I have placed many many many references from television, books, games, and movies in this campaign. The players will play as mercenaries working for one of the many communities in the world. The objective is slightly arbitrary and not combat related. This allows players to free form their way of achieving the goal (kind of like a get in Improv).

## The Mission
The group will be playing as characters asked to escort a baron's son to a nearby colony/community. The baron is lovesick and would like to pronounce his love to a family friend's daughter (typical rich people).

## Twisting the Rules
Additionally, this campaign will add in a few rules. Player will have additional powers to make them above at least half of the setting's population. This provides their reasoning for being a hero. The DnD rule book does require players to insert this into their character, but often this is an afterthought. The powers should be equivalent to a level 3 spell max. It is more interesting to give a player something non-combat related. This way the player may use it in combat to be cool, but the Dungeon Master merely factors in advantage or a small bonus to damage in the roll. This helps with roleplaying through combat.


Combat will also occur in waves rather than turns. *IT ABSOLUTELY SUCKS* to play in a group of 10 people and have to sit through every turn of every character for a battle. Even with hoards of zombies which you can group dice for, deciding on actions takes way too long in an encounter. This distracts players and exponentially increases times during encounters. Encounters should whiz by the players. It should represent something impactful and wicked. Players should not have the ability to "change their minds after they see a failed attack" or "have a 20 minute conversation with a monster." The turns represent 30 second intervals of time. Making the group do their turn together, the dungeon master should work out the actual interaction based on initiative/turn order. The resolution can then be the story. This means every turn is planned by the group, allowing for debate and interaction every turn. This also means the players only have to wait for one set of turns from the DM. Finally, players can also feel anticipation in every action they do; maybe the fighter goes for a strike before getting knocked from behind. More on this will be put in the [Special Rules](#Special%20Rules) tab.

## Opening Possibilities and Avoiding Linearity
There are many, many possibilities for bosses within this setting. The boss can show up, change forms, or wait behind as needed by the dungeon master. This ensures players will realize the climax upon reaching this being. The boss should be a pull for the players. It should be a drive alongside the quest. This should be a smart tool in the Dungeon Master's belt. The character which drive the setting (for any possible objective) are described in the archetypes. These are motifs of characters I have seen commonly in literature over the years. I figure putting names to them will inspire a personal touch from another Dungeon Master. I found it very odd how many movie/game/book characters I could name that fit these categories. Perhaps a humanlike character requires a certain amount of loss separate from the monomyth story arch.


## Other Notes
This site was created for use throughout the campaign. It represents all of the information in my head while putting together this campaign. It is a world that I hold near and dear to my heart. I hope to continue providing to its lore in the future. I also wish for its use elsewhere as desired. I am willing to answer questions and provide some history checks as needed ;)


## Contact
- LinkedIn: [https://www.linkedin.com/in/tflexsoom/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tflexsoom/)
- Email: tchilbert\[at\]live\[dot\]com
- Username: TFlexSoom
